>> The mysterious world
of dreams has, thus far,
only been fully
accessible to one person--
the dreamer.
Until now, with a recent
groundbreaking study,
a new age of dream
research has just begun.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The lucid dream is
a state of being
aware that you're
dreaming and possibly
having some control
over what happens in it.
It is estimated that
some 50% of people
have had one,
especially in childhood.
Scientists have been studying
this phenomenon for decades
but haven't been able
to adequately explain it
because a person's recounting
of dreams upon waking
is often unreliable.
But recently, scientists
have made a breakthrough
by showing that people
can both comprehend
questions and provide answers
to them all while they're
dreaming.
A team of international
researchers
studied 36 people with
the goal of finding a way
to communicate with them
while they were dreaming.
The results were groundbreaking.
Charlie Morley is a dream
researcher who teaches people
how to lucid dream.
He had this to say about
the importance of the study.
>> Up to this point, there's
been no way to directly
communicate to the lucid dreamer
while they're in the lucid
dream.
You can give them
instructions before, you
can speak to them
afterwards, but while they're
in the internal virtual reality
simulation of their own mind,
there's a blackout in comms.
The brilliant thing
about this new study
is that blackout
was broken through.
They could actually communicate
to the lucid dreamer
while they were inside
the lucid dream.
>> How exactly did they do this?
>> What they've discovered is
once you're in a lucid dream,
you can actually direct
your physical eyes at will.
So using a form of
literal Morse code,
flicking the eyes
left, right, up,
down to indicate
certain responses,
they were able to
communicate with the dreamer
while they were still asleep.
How did they enter the dream?
Three main different ways.
One person said it came through
a car radio in the dream.
Suddenly, the radio
station changed
and they could hear the
voice of the scientist.
Another person said it
was like the voice of God.
It just came down from the sky.
And another person said it
was like a narrating film.
They would then reply,
yes, I can hear you,
by doing, you know, two
eye flicks to the left
or whatever code they had a
pre-decided to indicate yes.
You know, full-on
communication back and forth
while the person is
still in the dream.
>> Out of the 158 trials,
participants were able to give
correct answers about
18% of the time,
which is quite
statistically significant.
The validity of the results
was strengthened by the fact
that there were four
separate teams of researchers
in four different
countries, all using
slightly different techniques
and getting similar results.
Given these findings,
researchers like Charlie Morley
are excited about
the opportunities
for further exploration
and potential applications.
>> Up until this study,
lucid dreaming has been,
by definition, a solo activity.
You are literally inside a
three-dimensional projection
by your own mind.
And when you're within this
three-dimensional projection,
you can do whatever you like.
You can choose to
work with PTSD,
you can choose to
ask big questions,
you get the keys to the library
of the unconscious mind.
Essentially, anything you can
treat through hypnotherapy,
you can also treat
through lucid dreaming.
Back the same way as
a hypnotist, brings
a thread of the conscious
mind down to the subconscious,
in a lucid dream,
you bring a threat
of the conscious into the
depths of the unconscious mind.
The cool thing
about this study is
it means that the lucid
dream state, which
was up to this point
a completely solo, one
person place, can now have
another individual involved.
If we can have therapists being
able to talk to their clients
within a lucid dream,
guiding them, helping
them to engage healing,
this could greatly
expediate the healing process
and the therapeutic journey.
A lot of the work that
I do with lucid dreaming
is working with
military veterans.
A lot of whom I work
with heavy PTSD trauma.
Could there be a day,
a few years from now
where I can be in the lab with
a heavily traumatized veteran
guiding them into
the lucid dream
and then being able
to communicate to them
say, OK, don't worry.
This is just a lucid dream.
You're safe, I'm here with you.
I want you to move towards
the source of your fear.
I mean, wow.
That would be the next
level in trauma therapy.
>> Other research areas which
could come out of this study
include nightmare therapy,
memory processing, creativity,
and even self-healing.
>> There is burgeoning
research now, and in fact,
I just got a big grant to
be part of this research,
to see if we can prove the
anecdotal claims that lucid
dreaming can be used to
treat physical ailments.
So there are dozens
of anecdotal claims
of people going
to the lucid dream
and doing visualized healing or
affirmations or kind of hands
on Reiki to themselves
within the lucid dream,
leading to some sort
of placebo healing
or spontaneous healing
in the waking state.
We know that anecdotally
there's never
been any scientific studies on
it, but those are coming soon.
So I think that's the
next big kind of frontier
in lucid dreaming research.
>> What are the greater
implications of this research?
>> When we look at
someone's dream world,
we're looking at a direct
expression of the internal
environment of their own mind.
With so many
therapeutic modalities
being based on the premise
of what's going on in here,
there's no better
way to see what's
going on in here than to
look into someone's dreams.
When you start
having lucid dreams,
you gain conscious access
to that dream world
and can start to plant
seeds of possibility that
affect not only your dream
time, but your waking state
experience too.
>> With this new study, we are
now one step closer to decoding
the secrets of the dream world
and using our time asleep
to better our time awake.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]